You're CTO of Meta, you are co-CO of
Salesforce, you're chairman of the board
at OpenAI. How do you think the AI
market is going to play out?
>> The whole market is going to go towards
agents. I think the whole market is
going to go towards outcomes based
pricing. And it's just so obviously the
correct way to build and sell software.
>> So, makes me think about it. I had Mark
Ben off on the podcast. You guys were
co-COS. He was extremely agent pill.
>> It's so hard to sell productivity
software, which I learned our way.
>> What's a story that comes to mind when
you think about your biggest mistake? I
was the product manager for was called
Google Local. Had a pretty tough product
review with Marissa and Larry. And to
not do that well with a link from the
Google homepage is like kind of
embarrassing.
>> I think it's really empowering for
people to hear it's possible to succeed
in spite of a massive failure like this.
>> They sort of gave me another shot to do
a V2 of it that resulted in Google Maps.
We got about 10 million people using on
the first day.
>> What mindset contributed to you being
successful in such a variety of roles?
>> Waking up every morning. What is the
most impactful thing I could do today?
Today my guest is Brett Taylor. Brett is
an absolute legendary builder and
founder. He co-created Google Maps at
Google. He co-founded the social network
friend feed, which invented the like
button and the real-time newsfeed, which
he sold to Facebook. He then became CTO
at Facebook. He then started a
productivity company called Quip, which
he sold to Salesforce for $750 million.
He then became co-CEO of Salesforce.
He's also currently chairman of the
board at OpenAI. At one point, he was
chairman of the board at Twitter. Today,
he's co-founder and CEO of Sierra, an AI
startup building agents to help
companies with customer service, sales,
and more. In our conversation, we cover
so much ground, including what skills
and mindsets have most helped Brett be
so successful in so many roles, why
we're all still sleeping on the impact
that agents are going to have on the
business world, how coding is going to
change in the coming years, where the
biggest opportunities remain for
startups, lessons on pricing and go to
market and AI, the story behind the like
button, and so much more. This is a
truly epic conversation with a legendary
builder. If you enjoy this podcast,
don't forget to subscribe and follow it
in your favorite podcasting app or
YouTube. Also, if you become an annual
subscriber of my newsletter, you get a
year free of a bunch of incredible
products, including Replet, Lovable,
Bolt, Nad, Linear, Superhum, Descript,
Whisper Flow, Gamar, Perplexity, Warp,
Granola, Magic Patterns, Raycast, JPRD,
Mobin, and more. Check it out at
lennisnewsletter.com and click bundle.
With that, I bring you Brett Taylor.
This episode is brought to you by Code
Rabbit, the AI code review platform
transforming how engineering teams ship
faster with AI without sacrificing code
quality. Code reviews are critical but
timeconuming. Code Rabbit acts as your
AI co-pilot, providing instant code
review comments and potential impacts of
every pull request. Beyond just flagging
issues, Code Rabbit provides one-click
fix suggestions and lets you define
custom code quality rules using A GP
patterns, catching subtle issues that
traditional static analysis tools might
miss. Code Rabbit also provides free AI
code reviews directly in the IDE. It's
available in VS Code, Cursor, and
Windsurf. Code Rabbit has so far
reviewed more than 10 million PRs
installed on 1 million repositories and
is used by over 70,000 open-source
projects. Get Code Rabbit for free for
an entire year at codorabbbit.ai
using code Lenny. That's coder
rabbit.ai.
This episode is brought to you by Base
Camp. Base Camp is the famously
straightforward project management
system from 37 Signals. Most project
management systems are either inadequate
or frustratingly complex. But Base Camp
is refreshingly clear. It's simple to
get started, easy to organize, and Basec
Camp's visual tools help you see exactly
what everyone is working on and how all
work is progressing. Keep all your files
and conversations about projects
directly connected to the projects
themselves so that you always know where
stuff is and you're not constantly
switching contexts. Running a business
is hard. Managing your projects should
be easy. I've been a longtime fan of
what 37 Signals has been up to and I'm
really excited to be sharing this with
you. Sign up for a free account at
basscamp.com/lenny.
Get somewhere with basecamp.
Brett, thank you so much for being here.
Welcome to the podcast.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> My pleasure. There's so much that I want
to talk about. You've done so many
incredible things over the course of
your career. It just boggles the mind
the things that you've done and we're
going to talk about a lot of that sort
of stuff. But I want to actually start
with the opposite. I want to talk about
a time that you messed up, a time that
you screwed up in a big way. We have
this recurring segment on the podcast I
call fail corner and so I thought it'd
be fun to just start there before we get
into all the great stuff you've done.
What's a story that comes to mind when
you think about maybe your biggest
mistake in building a product?
>> It may not be the biggest but it was my
first prominent mistake as a product
manager at Google. So um it's uh for me
it feels big because it was very
formative uh for me as a a product
designer. So I joined Google in uh late
2002 early 2003 and I was one of the
earliest associate product managers at
the company and first was working on the
search system uh essentially expanding
our index from 1 billion web pages to 10
billion uh which was a big deal at the
time. It sort of seems quaint uh now.
And then I did a decent job and so my
boss Marissa Meyer um gave me the
opportunity to lead a new product
initiative which was a big bet on me and
I was you know it was both an
opportunity to do something for Google
but I was also being pretty scrutinized
just as a young new product manager and
the premise given to me was work on
local search at the time the yellow
pages was still dominant and while
Google was really good at searching the
web it wasn't really good for finding a
plumber or a restaurant just because it
wasn't really a huge part of the
internet at the time. So this content
wasn't necessarily on the internet and
even if it was it was you really needed
a different uh you didn't really want to
find you know plumbers in Manhattan you
want to find plumbers in San Francisco
if you're me and so it was a kind of a
both a technical problem and a product
problem and a content problem.
uh we launched a the first version of
that product that uh I was the product
manager for was called Google Local and
it was you know with the I'll be a
little bit more critical now than I
might have been at the time but it was a
little bit of a a meto version of Yahoo
Yellow Pages you know sort of a um
essentially grafting on Yellow Pages
search on top of Google search and with
a properly crafted query you could you
know see those listings at the top of
your search results had a standalone uh
site made at local.google.com
and it was actually it was an important
enough initiative that actually there
was a on the Google homepage it had you
know web images and and local was up
there as well so you know it's got top
billing I mean you could put almost any
link on the Google homepage and get a
lot of traffic to it and despite that it
didn't do that well and to not do that
well with a link from the Google
homepage is like kind of embarrassing
you know it's it's uh I mean there's not
uh there's not much one can do other
like more than giving you that kind of
traffic to give you an atbat as a as a
product leader and a product manager and
um the product was fine like it worked
but it really wasn't differentiated and
uh and I think in many ways uh I think
again I think I've had these reflections
more since than at the time though I had
some at the time but why use this
instead of Yahoo Yellow Pages but more
than anything else like why use this
instead of Yellow Pages you know it was
sort of a digital version of of
something that had come for had a pretty
tough product review with Marissa and
Larry and others and it was fine. I
wasn't like about to get fired or
something but it was like you know the
uh I don't know the shine on the uh on
my reputation was sort of waning a
little bit and they sort of gave me
another shot to do like a V2 of it. uh
and uh and and I sort of got the
impression it wasn't like my last shot,
but it was sort of, you know, I I
certainly was feeling a little dejected
from going from sort of a hot shot new
PM to a new thing. So, we spent a lot of
time thinking about how can you make
something that's just much more
compelling and and not just sort of a
digital version of of the yellow pages
and not just a so so similar to some of
the other products out there. And that's
ended up being the thread that we pulled
uh that that resulted in Google Maps. Um
we had uh licensed from Map Quest the
ability to put like this little map next
to the search results. It was always the
ugliest part of the product and we
always you know made sort of these like
backhanded comments about it internally
and we spent a lot of time saying like
what if we sort of inverted the
hierarchy here and made the map the
canvas. We ended up finding Lars and
Yen's Rasmusen who had been working on
this Windows mapping product and we sort
of got them into the company and started
exploring this space and and uh it ended
up where through that exploration we
ended up integrating a lot of different
products. We ended up integrating
mapping, local search, driving
directions. Like all of these products
at the time were actually separate
product categories and ended up with
something that kind of uh redefined the
industry and and certainly my career.
But it took kind of uh I think for me as
a product leader, it changed the way I
think about product just because there's
sort of feature and functionality and
then there's like why should I use this
thing in the first place? And it was
notable there's a couple of interesting
moments there. I mean when we launched
Google Maps we got about 10 million
people using on the first day which at
that scale of the internet at the time
was huge. And then in August of 20 2005
we integrated satellite imagery from a
recent acquisition called Keyhole which
became Google Earth and we got 90
million people using on the same day.
Everyone wanted to look at the top of
their house you know when the imagery
came out.
>> And it was really interesting because
there's so many subtle product lessons
in there. Um, you know, first is I think
as you have these new technologies,
rather than literally digitizing what
came before, if you can create an
entirely new experience, it it creates
it sort of answers the question for a
new customer like why should I give this
a time a day, you know? And so really
disassembling the Lego set and
reassembling it into something new
rather than just digitizing what was
there before. Certainly that was the
lesson I think in Google Maps. it really
was native to the platform in a way that
like a paper map couldn't be, you know,
and and that was like a really
meaningful breakthrough.
Um, and then with satellite imagery, it
honestly wasn't the most important part
of Google Maps, but it was sort of the
sizzle to the stake and it created uh,
you know, I don't think the term viral
was a thing people said back then, but
it created a viral moment. We run
Saturday Night Live, which is the
coolest thing. Andy Samberg in I think
it was called Lazy Sunday, you know,
wrapped about Google Maps and Lars and I
were texting each other. We did it.
We're on Saturday alive. Mission
accomplished. And it was also showing
that, you know, as you're thinking about
products, there's the, you know, why you
decide to use a product and then what is
this the enduring value and those are
deeply related but not all the same
thing. And I just learned so many
lessons I took with me for like every
subsequent product um that I worked on.
>> That is that is an awesome story. one I
think it's really empowering for people
to hear uh even you Brett who I'm going
to share all the successes you've had
have had a massive failure with like the
CEO of Google Mr. Meer just like Brett,
you screwed up. This is and it was like
such a big bet. So one just uh like it's
possible to succeed as you have
succeeded in spite of a massive failure
like this. And then some of the product
lessons you share just to highlight a
few of these things because I think this
is great is just uh you will often not
win if you just make something that's
kind of a better copy of something else.
What you want to look for is something
that is an entirely new experience,
something that's differentiated,
something that's a lot more compelling.
Um, let's flip to talk about what you've
learned from actually being very
successful at a lot of things. So, I was
looking at your resume and you basically
have been very successful at every level
of the career ladder and in such a huge
variety of roles. So, let me just read a
few of these things for folks that
aren't super familiar with your
background. You were CTO of Meta. You
were co-CO of Salesforce. You're also
CPO at COO at Salesforce. At Google, you
joined as an associate product manager
where you famously, you didn't mention
this, but you rebuilt Google Maps in the
weekend. We're not going to talk about
that. You were chairman of the board at
OpenAI. You were chairman of the board
at Twitter. You also founded three
different companies. One social network,
one productivity docs company called
Quip, and now Sierra. Fun fact, at
friend feed, you invented the like
button. I don't know if people know
that. And also just the newsfeed. I'll
just throw that out there to give you
some credit. So you're basically an
associate product manager, an IC product
manager, an engineer, CPO, COO, CTO, CO
three different companies, including a
public company.
Very rare that somebody is successful at
all these types of roles and all these
levels. So let me just ask you this
question. What mindsets or habits or
just ways of working have you worked on
building in yourself that you think have
most contributed to you being successful
in such a variety of roles and levels?
Yeah, it's actually something I am proud
of. I I like the fact I've worn
different hats. It's actually amusing
when I meet colleagues that I've known
from one of those jobs. They'll often
think of me through the lens of that
job, you know, and so uh you know, I'll
go to meet folks from Facebook and they
think of me largely as an engineer.
They'll meet folks from Google, they
think of me largely as a product, you
know, person.
at Salesforce, you know, a lot of the
folks there interacted with me as like
a, for lack of a better word, a suit,
you know, like the boss. And I I'm not
sure they think of me as a as an
engineer at all, even though, you know,
I was still probably coding on the
weekends for fun. And one of the things
that is a principle for me is to have a
really flexible view of my own identity.
I really think of myself, I probably
would self-describe as an engineer, but
more broadly, I think of myself as a
builder. and I like to build products
and and I think companies are one of the
most effective ways to build products.
There's also things like open source,
but I think I'm a huge believer in the
confluence of technology and capitalism
to produce, you know, just incredible
outcomes for customers. And as a
consequence, I think to to really build
something of significance. Uh, you know,
I think to be a great founder, you
really need to be able to uh not have
such a oified view of your identity that
you can't transform into what the
company needs you to be at that point.
And every founder you'll talk to, you
know, one day, I think selling is a big
part of being a founder. You have to
sell investors on wanting to invest in
your company. You have to sell
candidates on wanting to work at your
company. You have to sell customers to
want to use the product that your
customer produces. Um you have to have
good design taste. Um not just for your
product but for your your marketing and
you know essentially soliciting new
customers. Uh you have to have uh good
engineering. I mean if you're building a
technology company the technology comes
first. It's you know why this industry
is so transformative.
I probably credit, and I've told this
story before, but I'm I'm very grateful
for her, but I probably credit Cheryl
Sandberg for um really changing the way
I approach new jobs. Um the story, and I
might be embellishing a little bit, but
I think it's broadly accurate. Um so, I
had uh just become the chief technology
officer of Facebook. And when I first
got the job, it was uh sort of the
flavor of CTO where I had relatively
small group reporting into me but uh
contributed almost as like a very senior
kind of architect you know on on a
number of projects and then at some
point uh Mark Zuckerberg reorganized the
company and kind of split it into a
bunch of different groups. So I ended up
with a very large group uh under me and
I was essentially running our platform
and mobile groups uh products design
engineering. So I went from you know a
handful of reports to like I don't know
over a thousand or something. It was a
it was a big group and it was the
largest you know management job I I'd
become a manager at Google but a modest
modest team. And so uh and I was doing
okay but not great. And I had this
moment where Cheryl saw me. I was I
think I was editing a presentation for a
partner just because the the
presentation I got didn't meet my
quality bar. And I was editing it and
sort of griping about she sort of pulled
me into a room and um kind of gave me a
talking to like a little bit about
holding my team to as high of a standard
as I have. uh if someone wasn't, you
know, meeting my expectations, you know,
what was my plan to like manage them out
of the company and or, you know, just
like kind of giving me management 101.
Uh and and she uh she's a remarkable
mentor in the sense she can kind of give
you feedback that's very direct and like
often a bit uncomfortable and but you
know she cares about you, you know, and
so it's the type of feedback you listen
to. I sort of went home that night and I
was kind of stewing on it and like not
very happy. I was like, you know, you
get sort of naturally a little defensive
in those moments, like, is that really
true? Am I really it up or is
it, you know, is she overreacting? And
then I woke up the next day, I was like,
no, she's right. And I had realized sort
of this subconscious
like limiter that I that was limiting my
success in the job, which is I was
trying to conform the job to the things
I thought I liked to do. So I was
spending a lot of my time on some
product and technology things that were
I was passionate about thinking you know
I'm the boss you know I should you know
focus on what I want to focus on instead
of thinking about okay I'm running the
mobile and platform teams at at Facebook
what's the most important thing to do
today to make our mobile plat mobile
mobile and and developer platform
successful
and when I reframed the job that way I
did different things and the thing that
was the biggest pleasant surprise to me
was I liked it. uh you know I thought I
liked engineering and product but in
fact when I you know changed an
organization and it turned out to be
more successful I derived a great deal
of joy from seeing that success uh you
know our developer platform had a lot of
partners and you know when there was an
issue there and I'd spend time on
partnerships and it worked and you know
our platform became healthier the
partner became more successful I was
took pride in that success and then I
just started being better at my job and
I realized that um the actual act of
engineering or product design or all the
things I thought I liked. what I really
liked is impact and and uh and so that
conversation led to my sort of waking up
every morning sometimes literally but
certainly in the broadest sense of the
word saying what is the most impactful
thing I can do today and really thinking
almost like a if you had an external
board of adviserss you know telling you
like where are the what are the things
where if you focus on them you can
maximize the likelihood that what you're
trying to achieve will happen and
sometimes Sometimes it's recruiting,
sometimes it's product, sometimes it's
engineering, sometimes it's sales. And
I've become much more self-reflective
just about what is important to work on.
And I have become much more receptive to
doing things that I previously would
have said aren't my favorite things to
do because I derive so much joy from
having an impact that I enjoy a lot more
things now. And uh so I really credit
Cheryl. I'm so grateful. And actually,
it's interesting. I think a lot about
this when I give feedback to people now
just like uh those moments that can kind
of like change the trajectory of your
career. Uh I mean I give her all the
credit for it.
>> There's so many people that share
stories of Cheryl Sanber giving them
advice and that changing their life.
>> What a what a mch.
>> Yeah.
>> My biggest takeaway from this uh which
is this question of what is the most
impactful thing I could do today. such a
powerful heristic just to kind of keep
in mind to your point, you may realize
you don't want to be doing sales or
hiring, but if that's the most impactful
thing and you end up doing it, you may
realize, I like this and I'm good at
this and and
>> can I double click on that though for a
sec?
>> Absolutely.
>> I think it's really hard. Um,
>> one of the dangers for founders and
product managers, uh, but I think
particularly for founders is incorrect
storytelling.
Uh, people don't like my product because
of X. And if you tell that to yourself
and you tell it to your team, all of a
sudden it goes from being an intuition
to being a fact. Um, well, you better
hope you're right because if you orient
your strategy around fixing that
problem, uh, and you're wrong, your
company's going to fail. Um, so, you
know, why did you lose a deal? Uh, you
know, you could talk to the salesperson
who was on the account or perhaps maybe
a product manager was involved in the
conversation.
It's very important to have intellectual
honesty in those moments because you
could say something like, "Oh, uh, they
didn't buy it because the platform costs
too much." Um, that and that's something
a salesperson might say. Maybe the real
reason is they didn't actually see much
value in your platform. So, it was
communicated to the salesperson as it
was too expensive. But in fact, it the
problem was product differentiation. And
you could end up going into a discussion
on pricing when in fact there was a much
deeper, much harder problem to solve
there. But it's not, you know, just like
when you break up with someone, you
don't say, "It's because I don't like
you anymore." You say, "It's not you,
it's me." You know, you say all these
sort of pleasantries because we're all
social uh animals and and you want to be
pleasant with the people that you around
you. So, you know, literally taking what
a customer says or what a user says in
like a focus group or a usability study
is rarely uh correct. Um, it often is uh
related to what the truth is, but it's
very important to get right. And so, I
think one of the things I've observed
with first-time founders in particular
is you're often a single issue voter
based on your skill set. So, if you're a
great engineer, the answer to almost
every problem in your business is
engineering. If you're a product
designer, the answer almost to, you
know, the the proverbial redesign, I
joke like the dead cat bounce of a
consumer product, like a re this next
redesign will fix all of our problems. I
I don't know if it's ever ever worked.
Um, and then you if you I met a lot of
entrepreneurs who like come from sort of
a business development background.
They're always thinking about
partnerships and and you know, oh, we
just get this partnership done for this
distribution channel, everything's going
to change. And I think it's really
important when you're a founder to be
self-aware that you will naturally
subconsciously pick the thing that is
your strength, your superpower as a
solution to more problems. And in fact,
if that you think that's a solution to
your problem, it may be right, but you
probably by default should question it.
Like if you think the thing that you've
been doing your whole career is the way
to fix your problem, it's at least 30%
likely that you've chosen that because
of comfort and familiarity, uh not
truth. And so I think it's like one of
those skills I think is it really goes
around to like do you have a good
co-founder, do you have a good, you
know, leadership team? uh if you're a
product manager like your partner in
engineering, your partner in marketing,
you really want to have very real
conversations um to ensure that you're
actually working on the right the actual
correct thing. And I think it's easy to
say what's the most impactful thing to
do today. My guess if a lot of people
try that, they'll lie to themselves more
often than not. And it's a very
challenging question to answer. The
question is interesting. Being able to
answer it accurately is actually the
hard part.
>> This feels like such an important lesson
you've learned. Is there an example that
comes to mind where you learned this the
hard way or where you actually ended up
>> you just want to spend this whole thing
on my failures but I'm fine with that so
>> you've had French was my first company
um at our peak we had 12 employees um 12
of the best people I've ever worked with
um started the company with Jim Norris
who's an engineer I've known since
Stanford and Paul Buhight and Sanjief
Singh who um Paul started Gmail Sanjie
was the first engineer on Gmail so we
had the Google maps people and like
Gmail people was like pretty awesome uh
founding team. We made a social network
as you said we sort of invented a lot of
concepts that um be became popular in in
the news feed. We invented the like
button. It was really neat. It was a fun
time. We were only really popular in
Turkey, Italy and Iran. And at one point
we were blocked in Iran. So we're only
popular in Turkey and Italy and Silicon
Valley. Um to this day actually a lot of
folks in Silicon Valley are like I love
love friend feed. I'm like that's
awesome. wasn't really a successful
business. There was a we were a follower
oriented social network um not a
friendship oriented social network which
meant a lot of our content was more like
uh X or Twitter than it is Facebook in
that respect and a lot of sharing
newspaper articles interests scientific
communities things like that and uh
there was a period when um Twitter uh
which was one of our competitors at the
time though there was a lot more social
networks at the time uh I I'm probably
screwing this up a little bit I think
Obama Ashton Koocher and like Oprah
Winfrey all went on Twitter like in a in
a summer and we just got our ass kicked,
you know, it's like and it was a great
example of you I think 11 of those 12
people were engineers and we were just
making product and uh I think it was Bis
Stone. I mean if you talk to the Twitter
folks they could give you the history on
this but I think Biz was really focused
on like getting celebrities and public
figures onto Twitter which is totally
obvious. It's like if you have a a
social service that's oriented towards
following people, put some people on
there worth following, you know, like
and instead you know we were exclusively
focused on polishing the product and we
actually I think you know at our uh sort
of peak of popularity we were very
confident just you know I think it was a
time when like Twitter had the fail
whale and was down half the time and
people couldn't even use it and you know
we our product we were innovating faster
we had more features people liked it we
could and and we were up 100% of the
time and we totally lost for no reason
related to product at all and uh and it
was an example of you know I think uh
somewhat famously not of like a lot of
great entrepreneurs have come out of
Google because once you like Google was
so successful I think it's hard as a
product manager to sort of see like
distribution and all product design and
even business model when you have
Adwords and you know money's raining
from the sky it's hard to you know uh
there wasn't as much sort of scrutiny
and I think like it's folks like the
PayPal mafia I think learned a lot more
about entrepreneurialism than like a
typical PM at Google. So I we're just
getting punched in the face, you know,
and learning this the hard way. And so
that was probably the most prominent
example of it, you know, and I think we
probably did have a I can tell you all
the flaws of that product, but I don't
think that was like the reason why we
lost. There's a lot of reasons. I think
there was a lot of flaws with the
product, but it was a lot of other
stuff. And so um I've learned like
accumulated these skills over time. when
I say the hard part of that question is
answering it correctly is it's hard when
you don't have experience in something
to have intuition in it. Um, so I think
if there was probably a structural flaw,
it wasn't that I I don't know if I could
have figured out how to reach out to,
uh, Ashton Ker if I wanted to, right?
It's not like I was on my, you know, u
on my rolodex, but I probably wasn't
soliciting advice from the right people.
You know, I think that what's great
about the technology industry is there's
a lot of advice. Choosing whom you
listen to is actually quite difficult.
But I think we're somewhat myopic. you
know, we're kind of in our own little
world uh uh creating this product and we
weren't asking people to like from the
outside in to say like what what are you
seeing that could go wrong? What are you
seeing that could go right? What are you
seeing in the industry that we're not
doing that you think we might want to
do? And this is why boards are
important. This is why, you know,
finding the right advisors, the
adviserss who actually tell you what you
not want to hear, but what you need to
hear. I think that was probably the
missing part. I'm not sure I was great
at market at the time, but if I had
solicited the right advice, I, you know,
could have learned that that was a
shortcoming. Um, and I think that was a
deep lesson I took from that. I'm a huge
believer in in boards and and getting
good advice.
>> Any kind of heristics or advice for
people to know whose advice to listen
to? What do you pay attention to when
you're like, "Okay, ignore this person,
but listen to this person."
>> Yeah, that one's tough. It is definitely
it does come down to good judgment and
being judge of people's character. One
thing that is particularly hard is
there's not a strong correlation between
the confidence
uh with which someone expresses an
opinion and the quality of that opinion.
I don't want to say it's inversely
correlated, but you know it's funny with
all the podcasts out now. if there's
topics I know a lot about, you know,
sometimes the most eloquent eloquent,
confident statements about things I know
a lot about are are the least accurate
and it sounds extremely persuasive and
and the uh so it does require very good
judgment. Um, one thing is I think not
just asking for advice, but asking
people who should I talk to to get good
advice and you'll find some common
answers there and that's often a really
um strong signal um of of good judgment.
And then one thing I found is um when
you ask for advice, don't just ask what
to do, but why. Like be it like an
obnoxious 2-year-old kid, you know, why
why why? And really trying to understand
the framework that someone is using to
give you advice. The interesting thing
about advice is people are often
extrapolating from relatively few
experiences. Um so you know, they'll say
never do this or always do that. and
it's because they had one experience
where that something backfired or
something could have gone better if they
had done it. So, it's it's a useful
anecdote, but if you don't ask why and
understand they had one experience and
here's what happened, uh it can come
across as a rule when in fact it's it's
anecdata. Um, and if you ask advice of
three people and they all have very
similar interactions, you can create
kind of like a first principles
framework from which that advice
emerges. And when you start applying it,
you're applying it with a degree of
nuance that you couldn't if you're just
following a rule. Um, so I think one is
it does come down to good judgment. I
think you know uh I don't know how to
teach that. I think it is probably a
very I'm a huge believer in good
judgment. It's one of the things I hire
for. I just think that that's something
that uh you know probably comes from a
mix of self-reflection. You know, like
you really need to hold yourselves
accountable like as a as an
entrepreneur, as a product manager, like
if you made a bad decision, spend time
reflecting on it like number one and
really try to understand why and try to
like always improve your judgment. I
think at the end of the day, that is why
you are a good entrepreneur, a good good
product manager. And number two, when
you get advice, really understand where
it's coming from and why so that you can
create sort of your own independent
view of of where that advice came from
and recognize that no one's advice is
statistically significant or very rarely
is it. I mean, if you're getting like
advice on investing, you know, from
Warren and Buffett, yeah, okay, it's
statistically significant, but that's
not most advice is like something
happened to you once and uh and you have
regrets. So,
>> I love that you're like, I don't I don't
know if I have a great answer and then
you just give us an incredible answer to
this question. I want to go in a kind of
a different direction. You mentioned
that you describe yourself as an
engineer. You I know I heard you code to
relax still. Um, let me just ask you
this question. Something a lot of people
in college are thinking about. Do you
think it still makes sense to learn to
code? Do you think this will
significantly change in the next few
years? I do still think it's studying
computer science is a different answer
than learning to code. But I would say I
still think it's extremely valuable to
study computer science. Um I say that
because I think computer science is more
than coding. Um if you understand things
like you know bigo notation or
complexity theory or uh you know uh
study algorithms and you know why uh why
a randomized algorithm works and and you
know uh why two algorithms with like the
same sort of bigo complexity one can in
practice perform better than others and
why a cache miss matters and just all
these little there's a lot more to
coding than than writing the code. The
reason I think that is I do think the
act of uh creating software is going to
transform from typing into a terminal or
typing into visual studio code to
operating a code generating machine. Um
I think that is the future of creating
software. But I think operating a code
generating machine requires systems
thinking and I think that computer
science there are other disciplines as
well but computer science is a wonderful
uh uh major to learn systems thinking um
and at the end of the day AI will
facilitate uh you know creating this
software we may do a lot more in the
next few years we can't even imagine but
your job as the operator of that code
manager generating machine is to make a
product or to solve a problem And you
really need to have great systems
thinking and you're going to be managing
this machine that's doing a lot of the
tedious work of making the button or you
know connecting to the network. Um but
as you're thinking of the intersection
of a technology and a business problem,
you're trying to affect a system that
will solve that problem at scale for
your customers. And that systems
thinking is always the hardest part of
of creating products. I'll just give you
like it's it's this cheesy simple
example, but I think it's
representative.
At Facebook, we would always uh you
know, we spent a lot of time designing
the newsfeed. And if you ever had like a
really really good designer and they
showed you at the time a Photoshop
mockup of of the newsfeed, it was just
always beautiful. The photos, the family
was happy and the photo was like a
perfect photo and the posts were like
all perfectly grammatically correct and
of a completely normal length and the
comments and the, you know, there was
the like button, everything was just
perfect. And then you'd like implement
that design and you'd look at your own
newsfeed and it looked like because
it turns out like not everyone's photos
were made by like a professional
photographer. The posts were all these
different lengths. The comments were
like, you know, you suck and like all
that stuff. And then all of a sudden you
realize that like designing a newsfeed
like Photoshop is the easy part. You
need to actually design a system that
produces a like uh both in content and
visual design like a delightful
experience given input you don't control
and that's a system that's not I mean
it's sort of a design uh and it's a
system what we did practically I I'm
sure it's changed a lot since you know I
left in 2012 but we um made a a system
so you know designers had to show their
newsfeed designs with real newsfeed data
that was messy rather than you anything
artificial because I think it forced the
process to be more realistic. But I say
that because I think that like whether
AI is writing code or doing the design
or doing all these other things like you
need to learn how to have a system in
your head. You need to understand the
basics of what's hard and what's easy
and what's possible and what's
impossible. And AI can help you do that
too by the way. But I I do think that's
a really useful skill. I think in
general with the advent of AI agents and
you know uh AI approaching super
intelligence in certain domains I think
the tools with which we do our job will
change a lot. I think it's very
important to have a very loose uh
attachment to the way we do our jobs.
Um, and you know I that story that we
won't talk about when I like rewrote
Google Maps like everyone talks about
that story because like and it's I think
it's because of Paul Buhay who told it
on some podcast and sort of made the
rounds. I think that's going to end up
sort of this vestage of the past like I
almost like the human calculators at
NASA before computers were invented like
wow a person was a calculator. Wow
that's fun like tell me that story. I
think just like what I was good at will
no longer be useful uh in the future or
certainly not like valuable in the
future and that's okay. Um so I think we
need to have a really loose view of it
but the idea that you shouldn't study
these disciplines it's sort of like
people say I don't want to study math
because I'm not going to use it in my
career for X. Well study math's quite
important like it teaches you how to
think. It teaches you like how the world
works, physics, math, and I think
computer science uh especially at least
sort of the the foundations of it will
continue to be the foundations of how we
build software and understanding that
when you're interacting particularly
with something that's smarter than you,
producing code you might not completely
understand how you constrain it and how
you get it to produce these outcomes. I
think it will require a lot of
sophistication actually.
>> That's such an great answer. there's
this always sense of this binary should
I learn to code or not and your point
here is learn to understand how
engineering works and how systems work
and how what your code does and how it
all interconnects but the way you
actually do the coding at your desk will
change significantly this reminds me of
something you mentioned on a podcast
recently this idea that you think
there's going to or there should be a
new programming language that is more
designed for LLMs versus humans can you
just talk about that because I think a
lot of people aren't thinking about that
>> I don't know if it's a language I would
call it a programming system because I
think language might be too limited.
>> Uh my reductive version of the past you
know what 40 years of of uh computers
maybe more is you know you we created
the hardware for computers then we
created punch cards which is the way you
know in like the late '7s you know uh
you would tell a computer what to do um
or maybe mid to late 70s. Uh then we in
you know invented early operating
systems and time sharing systems and
from the invention of things like Unix
at Bell Labs and and Berkeley you ended
up with um the C programming language
forran uh and and a lot of sort of
higher level programming languages I
think forran and then C and you we've
sort of moved up the layers of
abstraction so no one does punch cards
anymore obviously Few people write
assembly language, some people write C,
some people write Rust, but a lot of
people write Python and and TypeScript
and things like that. And as we've
invented more and more abstractions,
um we've made it easier to do high
leverage things. Um so, uh you know, I
always look if you look at how
remarkable Google was back in the day or
Google maps, like you could probably
give a lot of React programmers the task
of make a dragable map now and I think a
lot of people could do it. That was true
R&D, you know, back in the day when
Salesforce was created in 1998. Just
putting a database in the cloud was
hard. And you know, that was just like
that alone was a technical moat that is
now trivial with Amazon Web Services.
And and that technical mode is is
comically narrow, but the product mode
is is quite quite large. I think that if
the act of writing code is um going from
something that is very costly to like
the marginal cost of that going to zero,
how many of the abstractions that we've
built are based on, you know, uh human
programmer productivity. I think a ton.
Um, you know, like I always laugh that I
assume Python is probably the most
common generated code just because how
much it's in the training data and data
scientists love Python and I love Python
too. It's such a comically
bad thing for AI to generate just
because it's one of the most inefficient
programming languages of all time. If
you know the global interpreter lock and
just slow and I've written a lot of high
skill web services and it's just quite
slow and it's very hard to verify. um
like it it's it's not as bad as Pearl
but like you know if you have a big
Python program how many errors will you
find at runtime versus you know before
releasing it. So it was Python was
designed to be very ergonomic almost
look like pseudo code for humans for me
to write code in a delightful way. It's
why data scientists love it so much. So
as we move to a world where like let's
just uh postulate and I'm not sure this
will be completely true that like we're
not going to write a lot of code as
people. We're going to be operating
these code generating machines.
We probably don't care how ergonomic the
programming language is. What we care
about is when this machine generates
code, do we know that it did what we
wanted it to do? And if it doesn't do
what we want it to do, can we change it
easily? I think there's a lot of
insights in programming languages that
could serve this. So, you know, Rust, I
think, is interesting because if I if I
asked you to look at a C program and
say, uh, does it leak memory? You
probably couldn't do it that well just
because it's really hard. And if it's a
very like a million line C program,
that's be very, very hard. If I asked
you to verify that a Rust program
doesn't leak memory, you would just have
to compile it. And you know, because it
has compile time, memory safety, just
the act of compiling successfully tells
you that's true. I think we need more
things like that because if a AI is
generating this code, by definition, if
you have to read every line, that is
going to be the limiting factor for
producing the code. or worse, you're
just not going to read every line and
you're going to emit a bunch of unsafe,
unverified code into the wild. And so
the question is, how do you enable
humans to have as much leverage as
possible, which means using computers to
do the work on your behalf? You could
have obviously the simplest form of this
is AI, supervising AI and doing code
reviews and that's great. Um, certainly
self-reflection is a really effective
way of improving the robustness of an AI
system. But I do think if you you know
if it doesn't matter how tedious it is
to write the code, you could probably
layer on uh some techniques that are
sort of out of fashion like formal
verification uh unit testing other
things. And if you layer all these on,
I'm sort of thinking about it as I as a
it's like the guy in the matrix with
the, you know, green letters coming down
like how can I make something so I as a
operator of the code generating machine
can produce like incredibly complex
scale software incredibly quickly and
know that it works. And if you start
with that as your design center, I think
you probably change the languages, you
probably change the systems, you
probably change all these things and
you're probably going to bring to bear a
lot of things. And what's really fun
about is you can loosen a lot of
constraints like coding is free. Okay,
so that's neat. What with that in mind,
what do you want to do? What would be
best suited for the language, the
compiler, for testing, for
self-reflection, you know, for
supervisor models, all these things. I
think that's more of a programming
system than a language. But I I think
when we create something like that, it
can really enable um creators, builders
to create incredibly robust, incredibly
complex systems. And I'm super excited
about vibe coding, but I don't know if
like generating a prototype has been the
limiting factor in software ever. Um
it's actually like building increasingly
complex systems and actually changing
them with agility. uh you know if you
look at the famous like Netscape one to
Netscape 2 rewrite they like uh somewhat
a lot of people attribute that to part
of their failure against Internet
Explorer it's like making these things
is not hard like maintaining them is
hard and ensuring the robust is hard and
and I think we've just sort of we're in
the very early phases of defining what
this new system for developing software
looks like and I'm I'm very excited to
see what emerges
>> I feel like we're definitely living in
the future when someone like you is
suggesting that we build a matrix like
experience and that's going to be
potentially the future of coding and and
building.
I can't wait for that. Feels like a
great opportunity and a fun project.
This episode is brought to you by Vanta
and I am very excited to have Christina
Cassiopo, CEO and co-founder of Vanta
joining me for this very short
conversation.
>> Great to be here. Big fan of the podcast
and the newsletter. Vanta is a longtime
sponsor of the show, but for some of our
newer listeners, what does Vanta do and
who is it for?
>> Sure. So, we started Vanta in 2018
focused on founders, helping them start
to build out their security programs and
get credit for all of that hard security
work with compliance certifications like
SOCK 2 or ISO 2701. Today, we currently
help over 9,000 companies, including
some startup household names like
Atlassian, Ramp, and Ling Chain, start
and scale their security programs, and
ultimately build trust by automating
compliance, centralizing GRC, and
accelerating security reviews.
>> That is awesome. I know from experience
that these things take a lot of time and
a lot of resources, and nobody wants to
spend time doing this.
>> That is very much our experience, both
before the company to some extent during
it. But the idea is with automation,
with AI, with software, we are helping
customers build trust with prospects and
customers in an efficient way. And you
know our joke, we started this
compliance company so you don't have to.
>> We appreciate you for doing that. And
you have a special discount for
listeners. They can get $1,000 off Vanta
at vanta.com/lenny.
That's venta.com/lenny
for $1,000 off. Thanks for that,
Christina.
>> Thank you.
Okay, one more question along these
lines and then I want to zoom out on
just kind of where AI is heading. And uh
something I love to ask folks like you
that are at the cutting edge of AI is is
what you're teaching your kids. I know
you have kids. I feel like the world is
going to be very different when they
grow up. What are you encouraging them
to learn uh that you think might is
different maybe from previous
generations to help them be successful
in a world of AI abundance? I don't know
if I'm teaching them differently, but
I'm really trying to encourage them to
make AI a part of their lives. Uh I I
was reflecting actually um when I took
the AP calculus exams uh in uh 9798 AB
and BC, I could use a graphing
calculator. And uh I haven't done this
research. I I was meaning to plug this
into chat GBT before our conversation,
but I'll do it after. Did the calculus
exam change before and after they
allowed the calculator in the exam? I
assume it did. Um but essentially to
when you allow the calculator in the
exam, you need to make sure that none of
the questions, you know, benefit people
for having a calculator or not and which
actually forces you to sort of rethink
the problems to test calculus knowledge
that don't benefit from like road
arithmetic or you know the other things
you can do on a graphing calculator.
I think that a lot of education um is
sort of doesn't presume you have a super
intelligence in your pocket and so you
know if you ask someone to write an
essay on a book that they read you could
probably hallucinate one pretty easily
from one of the big you know providers
like chat GPT and maybe if you are
skilled enough at prompting maybe even
your teacher won't know it's written by
an AI. Uh so what do you do like how do
you teach kids differently? It's really
hard for teachers right now because I
think we haven't gone through the
transition of adding calculators to the
exams. So I think a lot of the
mechanisms we have to evaluate students
are broken by the existence of chat GPT
and the like. So I think we're in a very
awkward phase. But I I think we can
still both teach kids how to think and
teach kids how to learn and I think our
education system can catch up. And I
actually think these models can be one
of the most effective educational tools
in history. I don't know if you're a
visual learner or reading learner. I
like to read. I didn't love going to
lectures. I don't learn that well from
them. I like to like read the book. Um
and uh you know, if you have a teacher
who doesn't teach in your style, you can
now go home and ask chatbt to teach you
in another mechanism. I uh my kids use
chatbt to quiz them before a test. Um
you can use audio mode or chat mode.
It's like better than qards. You uh my
daughter took home a Shakespeare book.
She took a picture of a page she didn't
understand and chatbt explained it to
her way better than I would have uh as
well. I think every child in this world
has a personalized tutor that can teach
them in the way that they best learn
visually,
over audio, reading. Um we have a
platform that can test you, that can
quiz you. Um I think it's really an
amplifier of agency. I think you know
the folks who h like kids who have
agency who have aspirations to to learn
something I think you have what is the
best combination of every teacher you've
ever had and these these models and you
can use it.
So with my kids um you know my oldest
daughter learned how to code and she was
making a website and every time she had
a question for me I would just make her
use chat GPT. Not because I was trying
to be an obnoxious father, but I'm like,
she needs to learn that like to to use
this tool because it's it's amazing. Um,
and I so I really am trying to have them
learn how to use it constructively in
their in their lives. But that all that
said, I just feel a ton of empathy for
public school teachers right now. Um,
it's very hard because we're just with
the technology is moving faster than our
educational system. And I think
particularly as it relates to uh
evaluation, uh it's just really
challenging for teachers right now. And
I worry, you know, because these
technologies amplify agency, the
opposite can also be true. If you if you
uh are a student trying to like not
learn something, I think these tools
probably provide a lot of mechanisms to
avoid it as well. And so I think there's
a challenge for parents and teachers.
And I think we're going to end up with
kind of like a bumpy handful of years
here. But I brought up the calculus AP
exam because obviously a graphing
calculator is not chatbt, don't get me
wrong. But I think we've been able to
con figure out a way to conform, you
know, homework and in-class learning and
tests around the technologies available
to us fairly successfully to date. Um,
and I'm fairly confident we'll figure it
out, you know, and I like and I and I
think it's going to uh and I on the much
more positive side and I went to public
schools. I don't know if you did too,
like you end up with some pretty bad
teachers, you know, at times. And now
you have an outlet. You don't need to be
the, you know, rich kid who can afford a
tutor anymore to get tutoring. Uh, you
know, if you are a kid who excels in
math and your school doesn't have
advanced statistics classes, well, now
you do. So, I think this is just an
incredibly democratizing force with kids
who have agency. And I think that's very
exciting. I'm hopeful that this there's
a 11year-old right now who's going to
start a really amazing company, you
know, uh 10 years from now who's like
chat GPT is going to be like their
primary tutor that like led to that that
outcome. And I think that's pretty
pretty cool.
>> I have a 2-year-old and it feels like
there's like a new milestone of there's
like when to give them a phone, when to
give them I don't know, Snapchat,
whatever kids use these days, and then
it's like when to give them their first
ChatGBT account. Oh no. I wonder I
wonder how soon that's supposed to
happen.
>> I think chat should be my personal take
is it's different than the former two. I
I I don't think mobile phones are great
in school or great for kids. And I I I
personally advocate for waiting a long
time,
>> but I think that chat GBT is more like
Google search. And you know, it's one
thing to have a device in your pocket
that's addictive and has push
notifications, but it's another thing to
use AI to to learn. And so I think the
two are different. And I really think of
AI fundamentally as a utility. Um, and
and I don't think a lot of parents
before chatty said, "When should I let
my kid use Google search?" You know,
that's like a different type of tool.
And I think thinking it like that is the
way I think about these technologies.
>> And so is the form factor for your kids
like an iPad or a laptop or something.
>> Yeah. They use like the computer on the
desk that
>> All right. Good tips. This is good for
me to learn all these things as my ages.
Okay. I'm going to zoom out and let's
talk about business strategy AI. One of
the biggest questions a lot of founders
think about these days is just where
should I build? What will foundational
model companies not squash and do
themselves? Uh being someone building a
very successful AI business and also
being on the board of OpenAI feel like
you have a really unique perspective on
what is probably a good idea and it's
probably not a good idea. Why do you
think the AI market is going to play out
and where do you think founders should
focus and also just try to avoid? I
think there's three segments of the AI
market that will end up fairly
meaningful markets and then I'll I'll
end with how I think it's going to play
out. So uh first is the frontier model
um market or foundation model market. I
think this will end up the small handful
of hyperscalers and really big labs uh
just like the cloud infrastructure as a
service market. So uh and the reason for
that is that creating a frontier model
is entirely a function of capex and you
need a company with huge amounts of
capex capacity to build one of these
models. All of the companies that were
startups that tried to do this have
already been consolidated or almost all
of them inflection adapt character and
others. And I think it's just not there
doesn't appear to be a viable business
model for a startup because of the
amount of capex required and there's
just not enough runway you can
fundraising runway to get to escape
velocity and also the models deteriorate
in value fairly quickly as an asset
class and so you need just a lot of
scale to make a return on the investment
for a model that deteriorates in value
so quickly. Um, so I think that's going
to end up probably no entrepreneur
should build a frontier model. That's my
my
>> Unless you're Elon.
>> Yeah. Oh, yeah. He's not He's different,
right? And he has the capacity to raise
billions in capital. And my guess is
most of your other listeners don't. And
then he's he's the greatest of all time
for a reason. And he's different. You
don't compare yourself to him. You know,
the other part of the market is the
tooling. Uh, and I think there's, you
know, a lot of folks selling pickaxes in
the gold rush. This is data labeling
services. This is uh you know data
platforms. It's eval tools. Um more
specialized models like 11 Labs has a
great set of voice models that a lot of
companies use that are really high
quality. And and it's sort of like if
you're trying to be successful in AI,
what are the different tools and
services that you need? There is some
risk to the tooling market because it's
probably it's pretty close to the sun.
So uh if you look at the infrastructure
as a service market and the cloud
tooling market like the Confluent and
data bricks and snowflake a lot of the
um Amazon and Azure and others have
competing products in those areas
because they're very adjacent to the the
to the infrastructure itself and every
infrastructure provider is trying to
differentiate by moving up the stack and
and you're right there and so there's
some real meaningful companies as I
mentioned like Snowflake data bricks
Confluent and others but there's a lot
of others that were sort of obvious
iated by um uh technology from the the
infrastructure providers themselves. So
those companies probably are the most at
risk for you know a developer day from
one of these big foundation model
companies releasing exactly what they
do. So you have to there's probably a
lot of people who need your your tool
but the question will be if or when is
probably the right way to think about
it. One of these large infrastructure
providers introduces a competitor why
will people continue to choose you? Um,
so it's it's a good market, but it's a
little bit close to the sun, as I said.
And then there's the applied AI market.
I think this will play out for companies
who build agents. Uh, I think agent is
the new app. Uh, and so I think that's
going to be sort of the product form
factor. So there's companies like
Sierra. We help companies build agents
to answer the phone or answer the chat
for customer experience and customer
service. There's companies like Harvey
that make agents for uh both a legal
parallegal profession, antirust reviews,
reviewing contracts, etc., etc. There's
companies that do content marketing.
There's companies that do supply chain
analysis. Uh I think this is sort of
like the software as a service market.
Um they'll probably be higher margin
companies because you're selling
something that achieves a business
outcome as opposed to being a byproduct
of the models themselves. they will
almost certainly pay taxes down to the
model providers which is why those model
providers will end up extremely large
scale but probably slightly lower margin
and I think you know you the market for
them will be probably less technical I
mean if if you know if you think about
the purest form of software as a service
it's not like you ask like what database
do you use right it's it's really about
the feature and function I think that's
where agents will go I think it's going
to be more about uh product than it is
about technology uh over time Just you
know just going back to my metaphor you
know in 1998 when Mark and Parker
started Salesforce just getting that
database running in the cloud was like a
technical achievement you know nowadays
like you know no one asks asked about
that because you can just spin up a
database in AWS or Azure and it's like
no problem I think today you know
getting an orchestration orchestrating
an agentic process on top of the models
is like sounds really fancy and it's
really hard and all that stuff you I'm
pretty sure that's going to be in in
three or four years. It's just like just
as the technology improves. And so over
time you say like what is an agent
company? Well, it looks a little bit
more like soft as a service. You talk a
little bit less about how you deal with
the models. Uh in the same way modern
SAS few people ask what database you
use, but you'll probably ask a lot about
the workflows and and what you know
business outcomes that you're driving.
Are you generating leads for a sales
team? Are you you know minimizing your
procurement spend? whatever value you're
providing, it's going to sort of slowly
evolve towards that. Um I I'm very excit
I don't think startups should probably
build foundation models. I think uh but
I just I mean you can shoot your shot,
you know, if you have a vision for the
future, go for it. But I think it's
probably a challenging market that's
already sort of consolidated. I'm very
excited about the other two markets. I'm
particularly excited as building agents
becomes easier to see a lot of um
longtail agent companies come out. Um, I
was looking at a website for the top 50
software companies in the stock market
and obviously like the top five or the
big big boy ones like Microsoft, Amazon,
Google, all that, but like the next 50
are all SAS companies and they're like
some of them are very exciting. Some of
them are like super boring, but this is
like how the software market has
evolved. I think we're going to see
something kind of similar with agents.
Like it's not just going to be like
these huge markets like we're in like
customer service and software
engineering. uh it's going to be like a
lot of like things where people are
spending a lot of time and resources
that an agent can just solve but it
requires an entrepreneur who actually
understands that business problem like
in deep deeply uh and I think that's
where like a lot of the value is going
to be unlocked in the AI market.
>> That is incredibly helpful. This makes
me think about I had Mark Benoff on the
podcast you guys were co-COS and he was
uh extremely agentpilled. All you wanted
to talk about was agent force. Uh
clearly you are also very agent-pilled.
What is it that you
>> I've never heard the term agent pled.
I'm going to use that one. So
>> uh clearly you guys saw something that
was just like okay we need to go all in
on agents. This is the future. What is
it you think people are missing about
just like why this is such a critical
change in the way software is going to
work. What are what's what are people
not seeing?
>> If you talk to an economist like Larry
Summers who on the open AI board with
me, they'll talk about like what is the
value of technology? Well, it helps
drive productivity in the economy. And
if you look at the uh one of the big
jumps in productivity in the economy was
in the '9s. And I think a lot of folks I
talked to think it was actually that
very first wave of computing where
people made like ERP systems and just
like put accounting into computers and
databases, even like mainframes. We're
talking like the PC era because it was
such a huge step up like you know just
imagine like the ledgers of you know uh
numbers that you'd have for like a large
multinational company before and it
truly just transformed departments. I
I'll give you a little toy example. My
dad just retired. He was a mechanical
engineer and he was talking about when
he first started his career in the late
70s and you went into a mechanical
engineering firm, the majority of the
firm were drafts people. So basically
you take an engineering design but you
needed to do all the different vantage
points and for all the different floors
and to give to the contractor to do the
thing. Now there are zero draft people
at his company. You just make the the
design and first AutoCAD and now Revit
and it you know it's a 3D model and you
know the drafting has actually been
eliminated. It's just not a thing one
needs to do anymore. The the actual
design and drafting drafting is not a
thing that exists. It's just like you
can it's just a design.
I I that's true productivity gains,
right? It's like you know the job of the
mechanical engineering firm was to do a
design. The drafting was like sort of
this necessary output for the
contractor, but it wasn't really adding
value. It was just sort of like the the
supply chain change.
If you look at the history of the
software industry from the PC on, um
there's been meaningful productivity
gains, but just not nearly as meaningful
as that first huge jump. Uh and I'm not
smart enough to know exactly why. Um but
it is interesting like there has the
promise of productivity gains from from
technology um hasn't been as realized I
think as some people thought. I think
agents will truly like start to bend the
curve again like we did in the very
early days of computing because software
is going from helping a individual be
slightly more productive um you know to
actually accomplishing a job
autonomously and as a consequence just
like you don't need drafts people in a
mechanical engineering firm you just
won't need someone doing that thing
anymore. It means they can do something
else that's higher leverage and and more
productive and you can actually you know
uh a smaller group of people can
accomplish more and uh you know truly
drive productivity gains in the economy
and you know I think if you've ever sold
enterprise software you end up in these
discussions as a vendor with the
customer where you'll have like a a
value discussion and you'll do these
like somewhat convoluted you know things
like okay it's like you're selling and a
sales thing. Okay. Well, if every
salesperson sells, you know, 5% more da
da da da and you should pay us a million
dollars. Like, you know, and it's
roughly that conversation.
And it's so unattributable, you know,
especially and it's why it's so hard to
sell productivity software, which I
learned far away, is, you know, it's
just hard to know, you know, what's the
value of making everyone 10% more
productive. Did you actually make them
10% more productive or did something
else change? you don't really know all
these things, but now with an agent
actually accomplishing a job, not only
is it actually truly driving
productivity in a very real way, but
it's measurable as well. So all those
things combined means I think this is
actually like a step change in how we
think about software because it does a
job autonomously, which is like sort of
more self-evident, a productivity
driver. it's measurable so people will
value it differently as well which is
why I also believe in outcomesbased
pricing uh for software and all of that
combined to me it feels like as
significant as the cloud or I think more
technologically but just in terms of
like how it like transforms the business
model of the software industry where
there's going to be like a before and
after like I don't know how many people
still sell perpetually licensed on
premises software but it's dimminimous
at this point I think we're going to go
through a similar transition like the
whole market is going go towards agents.
I think the whole market is going to go
towards outcomes based pricing. Uh not
because it's the only way, but it's
going to be like the market is going to
pull everyone there because it's just so
obviously the correct way to build and
sell software.
>> Let me pull on that last thread. So we
had Mavon on the podcast recently,
pricing expert, legend, monetizing
innovation author and he uh talked about
pricing strategy for AI companies and he
was very much in your camp of if you can
you need to price your product as an
outcome based product and uh the axis
uses exactly what you shared which is
you can do that if you can attribute the
impact and it's autonomous it's running
on its own maybe just ch and he actually
used Sierra as one of the shining
examples of of this being successful.
Can you just briefly just explain a
little bit what is outcomebased pricing
for people that haven't heard this term
before and then just how does it work
for Sierra to give an example?
>> Yeah, I'll start with the example and
then I'll broaden it. Um so at Sierra we
help companies make customerf facing AI
agents primarily for customer service
but more broadly for customer
experience. So um if you have a problem
with your Sirius XM radio, you'll call
or chat with Harmony who's our AI agent.
If you have ADT home security and your
alarm doesn't work, you can chat with
their AI agent. Sonos, speakers, a lot
of different consumer brands. And you
know, if you think about running a call
center, um the there's a cost for every
phone call um that you take. Um most of
it is labor costs. Um but if you have,
let's just say a typical phone call is
anywhere between $10 and $20 uh US. Most
of it, some of it software, some of it's
telefan, but a lot of it is just like
the hourly wage of the person answering
the phone. So if an AI agent can take
that call and uh solve it, you know,
that uh is in the industry often called
a call deflection or a containment. Um
and that essentially means you saved,
you know, call it $15. Uh because you
didn't have to have someone pick up the
phone. Um so in our industry basically
we say hey if the AI agent you know
solves the customer's problem they're
happy with it and you didn't have to
pick up the phone there's a
pre-negotiated rate for that uh and
that's we call it like resolution based
there are other outcomes as well we have
some sales agents being sales paid a
sales commission believe it or not you
know we do we we really think of our
agents as truly customer experience like
the concierge for your brand and we want
to make sure that you know uh our
business model is aligned with our
customer's business model. As you said,
these agents need to be autonomous and
the outcome has to be measurable. That's
not always possible, but I think it's
broadly possible. And what's really neat
about it is if you talk to any CFO or
head of procurement, you know, with
their big vendors, they look at the bill
of materials and it's like overwhelming
and it's impossible to know if you're
getting the the value that you hoped uh
from that contract. I think
consumptionbased uh which was popular
particularly in the infrastructure space
is closer to it but I'm not sure like a
token is actually a good measure of
value from AI either. Um I always use
the analogy like right now most of the
coding agents are price per token or or
per utilization but there's this famous
story of a Apple engineer who had a bad
manager who's like had you report how
many lines of code you wrote every day.
um which every engineer in the world
knows is an idiotic way to measure
productivity. He famously went in with a
report that had a negative number
because I think he did a big refactory
and deleted a bunch and it was his way
of saying like you to the man. I
think tokens are similar, you know, like
yeah, you used a lot of tokens, like
good for you. Did the, you know, did it
produce a poll request, you know, that
was good? And and I think that's the
whole point of all this. I don't think I
think there's a huge difference between
outcomes based pricing and usage based
pricing because especially in AI,
they're not necessarily even correlated.
And you could have a long phone call,
not solve the customer's problem, and
they give you a negative review online
and call the call center again. All that
effort was for nothing. In fact, you
might have added negative value. And so
I am a huge believer in this. And what's
fun about it is it really just aligns. I
think every technology company aspires
to be a partner, not a vendor. And I
think at Sierra, we are truly a partner
to every single one of our customers
because we're all aligned on what we
want to achieve. And I think that is uh
really where software the software
industry should go. It requires a lot of
different shape of a company. You just
have to have you have to be able to help
your customers achieve those outcomes.
You know, you can't just throw software
at the wall because you'll never get
paid. If it doesn't, you have to, you
know, uh really just your orientation
becomes so extremely customer centric
when you do this the right way. I think
it's just a a better version of the
software industry. So, I think it's
right from first principles. It's right
for procurement partners and I think
it's right for the world.
>> We've been chatting a little bit about
productivity gains. There's a lot of
skepticism in in the headlines these
days of just like what is AI actually
doing? Like is it actually helping
people be more productive? There was a
recent study actually I don't know if
you saw where they showed engineers were
less productive uh with AI because it
was just putting them in different
directions. They had to research all
what's going wrong here and so I think
CX is a really good example where you
clearly are seeing gains. Are you seeing
actual gains at your company or any
other company you work with outside of
CX in terms of productivity that is like
clearly yes this is working and a huge
deal? I'm extremely bullish on the
productivity gains from AI, but I do
think the tools and products right now
are somewhat immature and it and it's
quite counterintuitive. So, for example,
I uh almost every software engineering
firm I know uses something like cursor
to help their their software engineers.
Most people use cursor right now as a
kind of coding autocomplete though they
have a lot of agentic solutions and
there's a lot of uh like openi has
codecs and there's you know claude has I
can't remember the the anthropic product
so there's lots of agentic you know
agents coming as well one of the
interesting things because the
technology is sort of immature the code
it produces often has problems um so
there's a lot of people sort of
approaching this to sort of actually
realize those productivity gains because
as any engineer who's written a lot of
code will tell you it's pretty easy to
like look at and edit and fix code you
wrote. Reviewing other people's code or
particularly finding a subtle logical
error in someone else's code is actually
really hard. It's actually much harder
than you know uh editing code that you
wrote yourself. So if the code produced
by a coding agent is often incorrect, it
actually can take a lot of like
cognitive load and time to fix it. And
in fact, if you end up producing lots
of, you know, uh, issues with your
customers, you could end up, you know,
producing a lot of features, but
actually like, you know, mcking up the
machine a little bit and having
something that's not ideal. There's a
couple of techniques I think are
interesting. Like, first, I think
there's a lot of uh, AI startups now
working on things like code reviews. I
think this idea of self self-reflection
in agents is really important. Having AI
supervise the AI is actually very
effective. Just think about it this way.
If you produce an AI agent that's right
90% of the time, that's not that great.
But how hard would it be to make another
AI agent to find the errors the other
10% of the time? That might be a
tractable problem. And if that thing's
right 90% of the time, just for argument
sake, you can wire those things together
and have something that's right 99% of
the time. So the it's just a math
problem like you know, and it turns out
that you can make something to generate
code, you can make something to review
code, and you're essentially using
compute for cognitive capacity. and you
can layer on more layers of of cognition
and thinking and and reasoning and
produce things increasingly robust. So
I'm very excited about that. The other
thing though is root cause analysis. So
we have an engineer at Sierra who
exclusively focuses on the model context
protocol server serving our cursor uh
instance and our whole philosophy is
rather than if it if cursor generated
something incorrect rather than just
fixing it try to root cause it um try to
get it so like the next time cursor will
produce the correct code. So like uh and
essentially is context engineering like
what context did cursor not have that
would have been necessary to produce the
right outcome. So I think people who are
trying to get productivity gains in
departments like software engineering
need to stop sort of waiting for the
models to magically work if they want to
see the gains now. And you really have
to create like root cause analysis in
systems and say like you know how do we
sort of go root cause every bad line of
code and actually give the right context
and produce the right system so the
models can do it today. Over time that
probably like less necessary and and
you'll have less context engineering
necessary to do it. But you really have
to think of this as a system. And I
think people are sort of like waiting
for the models to just magically get
better. And I'm like, well, that will
happen eventually. But if you want the
gains now, you got to put in the work. I
mean, that's essentially why applied AI
companies exist. And the work is
non-trivial, but it's you can do it. And
so, you know, for customers using
platforms like Sierra, yeah, AI agents
aren't perfect, but we're creating a
system that lets customers create a
virtuous cycle of improvement. If you
want to go from a 65% automated
resolution rate to 75%, we have a
billion tools to let AI help you do
that. Identify opportunities for
improvement. Figure out why people are
frustrated. What new capabilities can we
add to our agent to improve the
resolution rate uh and you sort of let
AI put the needles of the the h at the
top of the haystack on your behalf. And
I think that's really the way to
optimize these systems.
>> I've never heard of this technique of
improving cursor by adding additional
context. What's the actual way of doing
that? You build an MCP server that
everything runs through or is it like
you add cursor rules? What's the actual
approach there?
>> Uh I'm probably out of my depth here,
but it's essentially MCP, but it's
essentially, you know, because that's
how you provide uh context to cursor.
And I think that
>> almost always when you have a model
making a poor decision, if it's a good
model, it's lack of context. And so you
really want to like, you know, find the
intersection of your particular product
and codebase with the context available
to these coding agents. and and systems
and fix it at the root is sort of the
principle here.
>> Got it. That is very cool. I hadn't
heard of people doing that. Model model
context protocol makes sense. We've
talked about productivity gains outside
CX. Just to give you a chance to share
how amazing what you've built is, what
are some of the gains you see from
people using Sierra?
>> Yeah, we have uh our customers see
anywhere between 50 and 90% of their
customer service interactions completely
automated, which I think is really
exciting. Um and we serve just a really
really broad range of customers. Um we
serve the health insurance industry, the
healthcare provider space, uh banks, you
can actually refinance your home using
an agent, one of our customers built on
our platform to uh the
telecommunications industry, Direct TV,
Sirius XM to a lot of retailers um as
well, which is really fun. everyone from
Wayfair to uh clothing retailers like
Olkai and Chubby Shorts. What's really
neat about it is a pretty diverse range
of use cases and it's everything from
helping you um you know sign up for we
have a an agent that helps with customer
support in one of the big dating
applications to uh you know uh helping
you uh upgrade or downgrade your your
Sirius XM plan. Actually, it's really
funny. We do technical support from
everything from home alarm systems to
sono speakers to more recently cat scan
machines um which I think is amazing. So
technicians going in and fixing the cat
scan machine can chat with an AI agent
to help them guide them through that
process. We're we're the leader in the
space. Um we're trying to enable every
company in the world to create their
agent with their brand at the top. Um
that I think will become as meaningful
of a digital touch point as their
website or their mobile app. Um in the
short term it can really transform the
costs of running a customer service
team. Uh you know and and what's
remarkable is do so with really high
customer satisfaction scores. Um you
know that Weight Watchers agent I
believe has a customer satisfaction
score 4.6 out of five which is pretty
amazing. You know that's and and what's
interesting about service too it's often
people have having a problem. And so you
know when you have our a clear I don't
know if you use them in the airport I
think that agent has a seat score of 4.7
out of five. you know, people are coming
in with a problem and end being
delighted. And I think that's really the
opportunity here. And you know, our
whole vision is that we're going to move
towards a world where every single one
of the interactions with your customers
can be instant, it can be multilingual,
it can be uh over audio, it can be over
chat, it can be digital, it can be over
the phone, and it can be very
personalized. And I think that's really
really exciting. And if you think about
all the best moments you've had with a
brand, it's like that store associate
who you know. Uh, and you know, it's
like for me it's like the butcher at the
grocery store. I love to cook. He knows
me. We talk. Like can you actually
produce that at scale for a company with
100 million customers? Um, and can you
do it in a in a really personal way? And
I think we're really at on the cusp of
enabling that.
>> Let me ask you one more question before
we get to our very exciting lightning
round. There's a lot of um founders
struggling with go to market in AI with
their AI apps. There's so many apps
these days, so many products, so many uh
things coming at buyers at large B2B
companies. Clearly, you guys have
figured something out. I imagine your
name helps uh investors help. But uh
what have you learned about just how to
successfully
do go to market with an AI product, say
an agent specific product that you think
would be helpful for folks trying to do
this better? I think there's a small
handful of gotom market models that have
been proven to work and I think it's
important to choose the right one for
the product category you're going after.
Um, one category I would say is
developerled. Uh, this is somewhere
famously Stripe and Twilio were probably
like two of the original that did this
exceptionally. Uh, and essentially the
go to market motion there is to appeal
to an individual engineer often within
the department of the CTO. uh who have
accountability and a fair amount of
latitude to choose a solution. Um this
works if your product is sort of a
platform product. Um it doesn't work for
example if your product is uh trying to
help a line of business because lines of
business typically don't have dedicated
engineering teams or uh let alone the
latitude to just go you know download an
a new library or or start using a web
service like that. It particularly works
well if you sell to startups uh just
because startups tend to have
engineering teams with quite a bit of
latitude to uh choose services to help
them solve the problem given by the
founder. Then there's productled growth.
Um it's a broad term obviously every
company's product matters but productled
growth more specifically means users can
sign up from the website um often get
put on a trial. Often you can buy a
couple seats with a credit card and
those work where your user and your
buyer are the same person. Um, so it
works for small business software almost
always because sole proprietors do
everything. And so if you're selling
small business software like, you know,
Shopify in the early days and there's a
lot of other products like that, uh,
where you're trying to sell to to small
merchants, you know, that's great. Uh,
it doesn't work well when you're buyer
and the user of the software are
different. So I always use the example
of something like expense reporting
software. The user of that software is
an individual employee, but the buyer is
often a finance department. Um, and so,
you know, having sign up and buy with
your credit card doesn't make sense
because the person using it is not the
person with the credit card and and it
just doesn't work. And then there's
direct sales. Uh, and direct sales had
gone I don't say out of fashion, but if
I think of like the best direct sales
companies, I probably there's a lot of
lineage from Oracle, but you think SAP,
Oracle, Service Now, Salesforce, uh,
Adobe perhaps, and there's others as
well. And these were companies that sold
into you know large lines of business um
in a relatively traditional sales
motion. I think because productled
growth became very popular. I think a
lot of companies use that which is
great. It it that motion produces great
products. Um but if PLG means that you
aren't actually engaging with the buyer
of your software like you're not going
to grow. And so, uh, I've actually seen
more recently with a lot of AI
companies, direct sales come a little
bit more back into fashion because I
think so many of the opportunities in AI
are actually, uh, meet that
qualification where the buyer and the
user are not necessarily the same, uh,
same person and it really requires that
go to market motion. Where I see
entrepreneurs stumble is they'll sort of
choose uh a go to market motion without
thinking through the uh what is the
process of purchasing this software.
What is the process of evaluating the
the value of this software and I think
people just need to be much more like
first principles about it and much more
thoughtful about it. And candidly I
think like a lot of companies should
leverage direct sales more than they do.
uh and even though it like because of
the uh you know sometimes justified
reputation of the quality of products of
some of these direct sales companies a
lot of it sort of had gotten a bad name
and I think I think a lot uh I I'm sort
of thankful to see it coming back in in
a lot of the AI market.
>> I feel like this message is something a
lot of founders need to hear especially
founders that aren't from a business
background of uh that you know sales
turns them off. They don't think they're
going to be great at sales. just this
push of uh this might be what you have
to get really good at and this is how
you win and you can't just rely on
product like Ruth.
>> Yeah.
>> Brad, is there anything else that you
wanted to share? Any last nugget of
wisdom? Anything you want to double
click on before we get to our very
exciting lightning round?
>> No. Go ahead.
>> Okay, let's do it. Here we go. Uh
welcome to our very exciting lightning
round. I've got five questions for you.
Are you ready?
>> Yeah. Go ahead.
>> What are two or three books that you
find yourself recommending most to other
people? I don't read a lot of
non-fiction. Uh
but probably if I had to pick one sort
of in the area of the topics we talked
about um competing against luck which
was the the uh book that produced jobs
to be done which is a framework I really
believe in. My only critique is I think
most these sort of like business books
should be like an article. So maybe buy
the book and punch into chat GPT and get
the summary. Um but buy the book. It's
uh uh Clayton Christensen talked about
it, but it's a really good framework for
thinking about delivering value with
their products. Um and and I think it's
a I I it definitely influenced me on the
um actually one book I do recommend is
um Endurance, which is the story of
Shackleton's trip to go to the South
Pole. Um like half the book is him
starving to death and eating seal meat
with his uh crew of people frozen in
their boat. Uh, I've never seen a better
story of grit in my entire life. It's
like kind of remarkable that it's a true
story. Um, and you know, if you want to
like if you're an entrepreneur going
through a hard time, read that. You'll
be like, "Okay, it could be worse." It's
a great book, too. It's just remarkable
that it's a true story.
>> And uh, one thing he did a great job at
is setting expectations for folks that
joined that that famous.
I don't know if that's true. It's like
remarkable that's true.
>> Oh, it might not be true.
>> I don't know. The internet, who knows?
God damn deep fakes even back then.
Okay. Uh do you have a favorite recent
movie or TV show that you've really
enjoyed?
>> Yeah, I haven't gotten to any new TV
shows recently. We just watched um
Inception with the kids and they loved
it and uh made me um appreciate
Christopher Nolan. So, uh I and what a
cool movie, cool. I love it's the type
of movie when you watch your film and
you can have conversations for two days
afterwards about it. So, um just a great
film. I saw someone using I think V3 to
create their own inception videos where
the world's wrapping on each other.
>> Oh man. Okay. Do you have a favorite
product that you have recently
discovered that you love or one you've
loved for a long time?
>> I'm really a big fan of uh cursor. I
think it's like changed. I'm uh I love
creating software and I'm excited though
for agents. You know, I've been really
excited. I was very excited to see
codeex from open and others. So I think
cursor will be in its current form as a
transition product. Uh and I know that
they're working on agents as well. But
I've really enjoyed taking something I
love and I'm like been my life's passion
and really diving into this AI tool and
like seeing how it transforms how I
create software. So I've just been like
spending a lot of time with the product
just because it's so core to my like
what I love to do and and it's a really
well well uh crafted product. I think
it's the first time someone's actually
mentioned cursor in this answer, so
might be the beginning of a trend. Uh
Michael Trell was on the podcast and he
actually had a very similar message as
you had at the beginning of this chat
about the future of code, what comes
after code, and this concept that
there's going to be this additional
pseudo code layer on top of code.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh very aligned with your thinking.
>> Do you have a favorite life motto that
you often come back to and find useful
in work or in life?
>> The best way to predict the future is to
invent it. uh which I think I attribute
to Alan K of Xerox Park uh who invented
a lot of the core abstractions that we
use in computing today. It's why I love
uh I I am an entrepreneur. It's why I
love to build things. Um so and it's
definitely like a life motto for me.
>> I feel like many people like say this. I
feel like you've actually done this so
many times.
You're living this motto. Uh final
question. We talked about you inventing
the like button add friend feed. Were
there other uh thoughts of what they
would call it other than like? Was it
just like obviously like or was there
other thinking there?
>> The context. So this was before emoji.
Uh so uh there if you read the comments
on friend feed posts at least 70% of
them were cool or wow or yeah or neat.
And one of the principal like uses of
friend feed was to have discussions
about things. So you'd have a post and
then a pretty wholesome discussion
underneath. And it was a very compared
to you know Twitter and others it was
like a great place to have those
discussions. And so the product problem
we were trying to solve is get all the
one-word answers out so that the
discussion was actually like like actual
comments as opposed to acknowledgements
that you read the thing. So we the
original framing was one-click comment.
That was how we thought about it. Uh and
so we the first version that I made had
a heart. Um and though she denies
remembering this, but there's a Anna
Yang, now Anna Mohler, who has worked at
the company, she hated it. She said like
if I look at a like hearts on every
post, I'm going to vomit. Like it's just
too it's like too too much, you know?
And and it also was interesting like we
were simulating if it was like an
article about a tragedy or something. A
heart was just not the right thing like
which actually turned out to be really
hard to translate. Um was just a much
more neutral sentiment and and that's
why it was hard to translate because it
was subtle. Um and we so that's how we
ended up with this. We started with a
heart and and I don't know if we ever
heard the word love, but we definitely
start off with the micronography and
then like which just felt like this uh
positive yet as neutral as possible
within the realm of positive so that it
could work for like a more complex
story, but it was all because we needed
a one-click comment. That's where the
concept came from.
>> Wow. I've never heard the story before.
Makes me think about LinkedIn now. They
have they're basically trying to solve
that same problem. They have all these
auto reply kind of pill tag things. I
don't think people like
>> have a lot of features.
>> So many so many AI features. Brett, this
was incredible. This was an honor. I so
appreciate you coming on this podcast.
Two final questions. Where can folks
find you online if they want to reach
out? Maybe go see if they want to work
at Sierra. And how can listeners be
useful to you?
>> If you want an AI agent to help with
customer service, go to s.ai. Um if you
want to uh apply here,
sierra.ai/careers.
Um we're we have offices in San
Francisco, New York, Atlanta, and London
and are hiring um pretty aggressively in
every department. So uh please reach out
if you're interested.
>> And how can listeners be full to you? Is
it Try out Sierra? Anything else there?
>> Yeah, try out Sierra. I'm a single issue
voter.
>> Stay on message. I love it.
>> Yeah,
>> Brad, thank you so much for being here.
>> Yeah, thanks for having me.
>> Bye everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.